When deciding where to attend college, choices between public versus private and local versus out-of-state can mean the 
difference between acquiring an immense amount of debt due to student loans, or going to a more affordable, but less 
prestigious school. Paying off student loans can take quite some time, upwards of 10 plus years, and these debts continue
to increase when considering intentions of graduate studies1. While the costs for higher education continue to grow, 
recently companies such as IBM, Google, and Apple have stopped requiring college degrees to apply for jobs2. 
With this change in perspective on the value of a college education, we want to look at national student loan data and 
investigate factors contributing to larger amounts of loans, trends in private versus public institutions, and earnings 
after graduation, in order to draw conclusions on whether a college degree is worth the debt that can follow you much 
later in life.


The College Scorecard is a dataset generated by the US Department of Education designed to increase transparency on how well
different schools are serving their students3. We chose to use this dataset because it contains detailed information on every
undergraduate institution in the country regarding Academics, Admissions, Student Body, Cost, Aid, Completion, Repayment, 
and Earnings4. This dataset gives a comprehensive look at national universities and spans more than 20 years. 

We propose to analyze national student loan data across all 4-year universities for selected years to see if certain variables
are related to larger student loan amounts (i.e. student demographics, location, cumulative debt, cost of tuition, 
family earnings, etc.). We would also like to see if certain variables may be predictive of post-graduation outcomes, 
specifically earnings and repayment rates. Additionally, we will take a detailed look at the differences between schools 
within Massachusetts, since there is a good distribution of highly-rated public and private institutions in the state. 
